Hi, my name is Sacha Koumbias.
I'm the principal of River Valley
Middle School.
Today, I'd like to talk about our journey
to create a new vision
and mission for our school,
as well as our values.
And so the journey started
about three years ago,
and we took our time
because we really wanted it
to be something we really believed in.
And so we talked a lot about the vision
being a promise to our students
and our community.
And so in order to uphold that promise,
we really had to believe it.
We had to live it.
We wanted to really feel
that it was something we could do.
And so we really started basically
just by talking about
what we really believe about education.
And as a staff,
we tried to find some common
things that we shared,
some common philosophies.
So even just to begin,
we just talked about our favorite teacher
and how that teacher made us feel.
And that kind of grounded our work
because we wanted to go back
to those feelings about what we felt
when we talked about our favorite teacher.
And so we also tried to involve our
community
as much as possible during open houses.
We asked parents what they wanted to see
when their kids left River Valley.
We asked our home and school and our PSC
to answer a couple of questions for us.
One question was, what do you believe
the purpose of education is?
And the second question
was when your child leaves
River Valley Middle School,
what knowledge, skills, and characters
do you hope they possess?
And so then, in all of our subsequent
professional learning days,
we really talked about what does a vision
and mission statement mean?
What does it look like?
We did some readings on that
and then and small groups.
We came together and we started to draft
what we really felt.
And then we took those drafts
and we looked for themes, and we combined
the themes to come up with what
we now have as a vision and mission.
And statement.
And we also have five values
that we strive to live by.
And we're now in the implementing stages.
So we've taken three years
to come up with this vision and mission
and value statement.
And now we are implementing them
into our our daily routine.
So one take away
would be the importance of being patient
and taking your time to really build on
what your staff believe.
And, every school is unique,
so it's important
that you really try to identify
your school strengths and really,
reflect, have those
strengths reflected in your statements,
in your vision and mission statements.
And, looking ahead.
We really trying to find ways now
to embed this
into the fabric of our school
and to ensure that the decisions
that we're making for our students
are reflective of our vision and mission.
The vision and mission really are
something that should anchor your school,
and they should align
with your school improvement plan
and the district improvement plan.
And so you have to have
that big overarching goal,
that big overarching targets
that you're always working towards.
And so, you know, having that vision
and mission keeps us
aligned and, and reminds us
of what we have promised to do.